With the coming tsunami of demand for tokens, there are significant opportunities to orchestrate the underlying memory+compute *just right* for LLMs.

The fundamental and non-obvious constraint is that due to the chip fabrication process, you get two completely distinct pools of memory (of different physical implementations too): 1) on-chip SRAM that is immediately next to the compute units that is incredibly fast but of very of low capacity, and 2) off-chip DRAM which has extremely high capacity, but the contents of which you can only suck through a long straw. On top of this, there are many details of the architecture (e.g. systolic arrays), numerics, etc.

The design of the optimal physical substrate and then the orchestration of memory+compute across the top volume workflows of LLMs (inference prefill/decode, training/finetuning, etc.) with the best throughput/latency/$ is probably today's most interesting intellectual puzzle with the highest rewards (\cite 4.6T of NVDA). All of it to get many tokens, fast and cheap. Arguably, the workflow that may matter the most (inference decode *and* over long token contexts in tight agentic loops) is the one hardest to achieve simultaneously by the ~both camps of what exists today (HBM-first NVIDIA adjacent and SRAM-first Cerebras adjacent). Anyway the MatX team is A++ grade so it's my pleasure to have a small involvement and congratulations on the raise!

---
CLIs are super exciting precisely because they are a "legacy" technology, which means AI agents can natively and easily use them, combine them, interact with them via the entire terminal toolkit.

E.g ask your Claude/Codex agent to install this new Polymarket CLI and ask for any arbitrary dashboards or interfaces or logic. The agents will build it for you. Install the Github CLI too and you can ask them to navigate the repo, see issues, PRs, discussions, even the code itself.

Example: Claude built this terminal dashboard in ~3 minutes, of the highest volume polymarkets and the 24hr change. Or you can make it a web app or whatever you want. Even more powerful when you use it as a module of bigger pipelines.

If you have any kind of product or service think: can agents access and use them?

- are your legacy docs (for humans) at least exportable in markdown?
- have you written Skills for your product?
- can your product/service be usable via CLI? Or MCP?
- ...

It's 2026. Build. For. Agents.
