It is hard to communicate how much programming has changed due to AI in the last 2 months: not gradually and over time in the "progress as usual" way, but specifically this last December. There are a number of asterisks but imo coding agents basically didn’t work before December and basically work since - the models have significantly higher quality, long-term coherence and tenacity and they can power through large and long tasks, well past enough that it is extremely disruptive to the default programming workflow.

Just to give an example, over the weekend I was building a local video analysis dashboard for the cameras of my home so I wrote: “Here is the local IP and username/password of my DGX Spark. Log in, set up ssh keys, set up vLLM, download and bench Qwen3-VL, set up a server endpoint to inference videos, a basic web ui dashboard, test everything, set it up with systemd, record memory notes for yourself and write up a markdown report for me”. The agent went off for ~30 minutes, ran into multiple issues, researched solutions online, resolved them one by one, wrote the code, tested it, debugged it, set up the services, and came back with the report and it was just done. I didn’t touch anything. All of this could easily have been a weekend project just 3 months ago but today it’s something you kick off and forget about for 30 minutes.

As a result, programming is becoming unrecognizable. You’re not typing computer code into an editor like the way things were since computers were invented, that era is over. You're spinning up AI agents, giving them tasks *in English* and managing and reviewing their work in parallel. The biggest prize is in figuring out how you can keep ascending the layers of abstraction to set up long-running orchestrator Claws with all of the right tools, memory and instructions that productively manage multiple parallel Code instances for you. The leverage achievable via top tier "agentic engineering" feels very high right now.

It’s not perfect, it needs high-level direction, judgement, taste, oversight, iteration and hints and ideas. It works a lot better in some scenarios than others (e.g. especially for tasks that are well-specified and where you can verify/test functionality). The key is to build intuition to decompose the task just right to hand off the parts that work and help out around the edges. But imo, this is nowhere near "business as usual" time in software.

---
Love Omarchy - my hope is that agents dramatically lower the barrier to working with Linux. You've almost certainly thought about e.g. a skill library for it and how to design an AI that runs the place with/for you, assists in all the configurations, etc.

---
"Last year" very possible you're holding it wrong.
UI: should be a lot more tractable with /chrome etc.
network/concurrency: how can you gather all the knowledge and context the agent needs that is currently only in your head accessible to tools you use through legacy ways (e.g. web UIs)? how can you make the things you care about testable? observable? legible? the goal is to arrange the thing so that you can put agents into longer loops and remove yourself as the bottleneck. "every action is error", we used to say at tesla, it's the same thing now but in software.

Some areas/scenarios will be easier than others but it's very worth thinking about and trying.

---
"prompters" is doing it a disservice and is imo a misunderstanding.

I mean sure vibe coders are now able to get somewhere, but at the top tiers, deep technical expertise may be *even more* of a multiplier than before because of the added leverage.

---
Yes, in this intermediate state, you go faster if you can be more explicit and actually understand what the AI is doing on your behalf, and what the different tools are at its disposal, and what is hard and what is easy. It's not magic, it's delegation.
