nanochat now trains GPT-2 capability model in just 2 hours on a single 8XH100 node (down from ~3 hours 1 month ago). Getting a lot closer to ~interactive! A bunch of tuning and features (fp8) went in but the biggest difference was a switch of the dataset from FineWeb-edu to NVIDIA ClimbMix (nice work NVIDIA!). I had tried Olmo, FineWeb, DCLM which all led to regressions, ClimbMix worked really well out of the box (to the point that I am slightly suspicious about about goodharting, though reading the paper it seems ~ok).

In other news, after trying a few approaches for how to set things up, I now have AI Agents iterating on nanochat automatically, so I'll just leave this running for a while, go relax a bit and enjoy the feeling of post-agi :). Visualized here as an example: 110 changes made over the last ~12 hours, bringing the validation loss so far from 0.862415 down to 0.858039 for a d12 model, at no cost to wall clock time. The agent works on a feature branch, tries out ideas, merges them when they work and iterates. Amusingly, over the last ~2 weeks I almost feel like I've iterated more on the "meta-setup" where I optimize and tune the agent flows even more than the nanochat repo directly.


---
sorry just to clarify - the real benchmark of interest is:

"what is the research org agent code that produces improvements on nanochat the fastest?"

this is the new meta.

---
There was a nice time where researchers talked about various ideas quite openly on twitter. (before they disappeared into the gold mines :)).

My guess is that you can get quite far even in the current paradigm by introducing a number of memory ops as "tools" and throwing them into the mix in RL. E.g. current compaction and memory implementations are crappy, first, early examples that were somewhat bolted on, but both can be fairly easily generalized and made part of the optimization as just another tool during RL.

That said neither of these is fully satisfying because clearly people are capable of some weight-based updates (my personal suspicion - mostly during sleep). So there should be even more room for more exotic approaches for long-term memory that do change the weights, but exactly - the details are not obvious. This is a lot more exciting, but also more into the realm of research outside of the established prod stack.
