Wow, this tweet went very viral!

I wanted share a possibly slightly improved version of the tweet in an "idea file". The idea of the idea file is that in this era of LLM agents, there is less of a point/need of sharing the specific code/app, you just share the idea, then the other person's agent customizes & builds it for your specific needs.

So here's the idea in a gist format: https://gist.github.com/karpathy/442a6bf555914893e9891c11519de94f

You can give this to your agent and it can build you your own LLM wiki and guide you on how to use it etc. It's intentionally kept a little bit abstract/vague because there are so many directions to take this in. And ofc, people can adjust the idea or contribute their own in the Discussion which is cool.


----
Surprised with how good the comments on github gists are. A lot more helpful, insightful, constructive, a lot less AI... Is it the user community? The markdown format? The (lack of) incentives?

Suddenly feeling like I should gist more.
@github
 consider competing with X (?)


 ----
 Farzapedia, personal wikipedia of Farza, good example following my Wiki LLM tweet.

I really like this approach to personalization in a number of ways, compared to "status quo" of an AI that allegedly gets better the more you use it or something:

1. Explicit. The memory artifact is explicit and navigable (the wiki), you can see exactly what the AI does and does not know and you can inspect and manage this artifact, even if you don't do the direct text writing (the LLM does). The knowledge of you is not implicit and unknown, it's explicit and viewable.
2. Yours. Your data is yours, on your local computer, it's not in some particular AI provider's system without the ability to extract it. You're in control of your information. 
3. File over app. The memory here is a simple collection of files in universal formats (images, markdown). This means the data is interoperable: you can use a very large collection of tools/CLIs or whatever you want over this information because it's just files. The agents can apply the entire Unix toolkit over them. They can natively read and understand them. Any kind of data can be imported into files as input, and any kind of interface can be used to view them as the output. E.g. you can use Obsidian to view them or vibe code something of your own. Search "File over app" for an article on this philosophy.
4. BYOAI. You can use whatever AI you want to "plug into" this information - Claude, Codex, OpenCode, whatever. You can even think about taking an open source AI and finetuning it on your wiki - in principle, this AI could "know" you in its weights, not just attend over your data.

So this approach to personalization puts *you* in full control. The data is yours. In Universal formats. Explicit and inspectable. Use whatever AI you want over it, keep the AI companies on their toes! :)

Certainly this is not the simplest way to get an AI to know you - it does require you to manage file directories and so on, but agents also make it quite simple and they can help you a lot. I imagine a number of products might come out to make this all easier, but imo "agent proficiency" is a CORE SKILL of the 21st century. These are extremely powerful tools - they speak English and they do all the computer stuff for you. Try this opportunity to play with one.


----
Something I've been thinking about - I am bullish on people (empowered by AI) increasing the visibility, legibility and accountability of their governments.

Historically, it is the governments that act to make society legible (e.g. "Seeing like a state" is the common reference), but with AI, society can dramatically improve its ability to do this in reverse. Government accountability has not been constrained by access (the various branches of government publish an enormous amount of data), it has been constrained by intelligence - the ability to process a lot of raw data, combine it with domain expertise and derive insights. As an example, the 4000-page omnibus bill is "transparent" in principle and in a legal sense, but certainly not in a practical sense for most people. There's a lot more like it: laws, spending bills, federal budgets, freedom of information act responses, lobbying disclosures... Only a few highly trained professionals (investigative journalists) could historically process this information. This bottleneck might dissolve - not only are the professionals further empowered, but a lot more people can participate.

Some examples to be precise: Detailed accounting of spending and budgets, diff tracking of legislation, individual voting trends w.r.t. stated positions or speeches, lobbying and influence (e.g. graph of lobbyist -> firm -> client -> legislator -> committee -> vote -> regulation), procurement and contracting, regulatory capture warning lights, judicial and legal patterns, campaign finance... Local governments might be even more interesting because the governed population is smaller so there is less national coverage: city council meetings, decisions around zoning, policing, schools, utilities...

Certainly, the same tools can easily cut the other way and it's worth being very mindful of that, but I lean optimistic overall that added participation, transparency and accountability will improve democratic, free societies.

(the quoted tweet is half-ish related, but inspired me to post some recent thoughts)