TV in the 90s: you turn it on, you watch.

TV 2025:
- turn on, wait for it to load
- popup: TV wants to update, 1.5GB. No.
- scroll sideways, find prime video app or etc
- popup: now app wants to update, 500MB. No!!
- App launching... App loading…
- select account screen

---
I think when I said TV personally I just meant movies/tvshows which I realize wasn’t super clear. Things you used cassette or DVD for as the 90s baseline. I basically never watched TV as in news or cable.

---
There is a movement I found on Instagram where people delivery choose to live in 90s, refusing all technology after 2000. Like an intermediate form of the Amish.

---
nanochat d32, i.e. the depth 32 version that I specced for $1000, up from $100 has finished training after ~33 hours, and looks good. All the metrics go up quite a bit across pretraining, SFT and RL. CORE score of 0.31 is now well above GPT-2 at ~0.26. GSM8K went ~8% -> ~20%, etc. So that's encouraging.

The model is pretty fun to talk to, but judging from some early interactions I think people have a little bit too much expectation for these micro models. There is a reason that frontier LLM labs raise billions to train their models. nanochat models cost $100 - $1000 to train from scratch. The $100 nanochat is 1/1000th the size of GPT-3 in parameters, which came out 5 years ago. So I urge some perspective. Talking to micro models you have to imagine you're talking to a kindergarten child. They say cute things, wrong things, they are a bit confused, a bit naive, sometimes a little non-sensical, they hallucinate a ton (but it's amusing), etc.

Full detail/report on this run is here:
https://github.com/karpathy/nanochat/discussions/8
And I pushed the new script run1000 sh to the nanochat repo if anyone would like to reproduce. Totally understand if you'd like to spend $1000 on something else :D

If you like, I am currently hosting the model so you can talk to it on a webchat as you'd talk to ChatGPT. I'm not going to post the URL here because I'm afraid it will get crushed. You'll have to look for it if you care enough. I'm also attaching a few funny conversations I had with the model earlier into the image, just to give a sense.

Next up, I am going to do one pass of tuning and optimizing the training throughput, then maybe return back to scaling and maybe training the next tier of a bigger model.