Last night I taught nanochat d32 how to count 'r' in strawberry (or similar variations). I thought this would be a good/fun example of how to add capabilities to nanochat and I wrote up a full guide here:
https://github.com/karpathy/nanochat/discussions/164

This is done via a new synthetic task `SpellingBee`  that generates examples of a user asking for this kind of a problem, and an ideal solution from an assistant. We then midtrain/SFT finetune on these to endow the LLM with the capability, or further train with RL to make it more robust. There are many details to get right especially at smaller model sizes and the guide steps through them. As a brief overview:

- You have to ensure diversity in user prompts/queries
- For small models like nanochat especially, you have to be really careful with the tokenization details to make the task easy for an LLM. In particular, you have to be careful with whitespace, and then you have to spread the reasoning computation across many tokens of partial solution: first we standardize the word into quotes, then we spell it out (to break up tokens), then we iterate and keep an explicit counter, etc.
- I am encouraging the model to solve the model in two separate ways: a manual way (mental arithmetic in its head) and also via tool use of the Python interpreter that nanochat has access to. This is a bit "smoke and mirrors" because every solution atm is "clean", with no mistakes. One could either adjust the task to simulate mistakes and demonstrate recoveries by example, or run RL. Most likely, a combination of both works best, where the former acts as the prior for the RL and gives it things to work with.

If nanochat was a much bigger model, you'd expect or hope for this capability to more easily "pop out" at some point. But because nanochat d32 "brain" is the size of a ~honeybee, if we want it to count r's in strawberry, we have to do it by over-representing it in the data, to encourage the model to learn it earlier. But it works! :)

