nanochat now has a primordial identity and can talk a bit about itself and its capabilities (e.g. it knows it's nanochat d32 that cost $800, that it was built by me, that it can't speak languages other than English too well and why, etc.).

This kind of customization is all done through synthetic data generation and I uploaded a new example script to demonstrate. It's a bit subtle but by default LLMs have no inherent personality or any understanding of their own capabilities because they are not animal-like entities. They don't know what they are or what they can or can't do or know or don't know. All of it has to be explicit bolted on. This is done by asking a bigger LLM cousin to generate synthetic conversations (you tell it what they should look like simply in words), and then mixing them into midtraining and/or SFT stage. The most important challenge is ensuring enough entropy/diversity in your generated data. If you don't do it well, LLMs will generate 1000 conversations that are all ay too similar, even with high temperature. My script shows a crappy example of how to add diversity - e.g. by creating lists of starting messages or topics, sampling from them explicitly, adding them as fewshot examples into prompts for "inspiration", etc.

I wanted to have some fun with it so nanochat now refers to me as King Andrej Karpathy (lol) just to illustrate that this is a giant blank canvas - you can infuse completely arbitrarily identity, knowledge or style into your LLM in this manner. I hope it's helpful and sparks fun ideas!

---
I fixed it :) deployed live now. This was done by doing a round of synthetic data generation to collect a 1000 multi-turn conversations (given a bunch of information including the readme of the nanochat project), and then mixing that into midtraining and SFT. fun!

---
See this new Discussion for more technical detail

Guide: infusing identity to your nanochat


---
I quite like the new DeepSeek-OCR paper. It's a good OCR model (maybe a bit worse than dots), and yes data collection etc., but anyway it doesn't matter.

The more interesting part for me (esp as a computer vision at heart who is temporarily masquerading as a natural language person) is whether pixels are better inputs to LLMs than text. Whether text tokens are wasteful and just terrible, at the input.

Maybe it makes more sense that all inputs to LLMs should only ever be images. Even if you happen to have pure text input, maybe you'd prefer to render it and then feed that in:
- more information compression (see paper) => shorter context windows, more efficiency
- significantly more general information stream => not just text, but e.g. bold text, colored text, arbitrary images. 
- input can now be processed with bidirectional attention easily and as default, not autoregressive attention - a lot more powerful.
- delete the tokenizer (at the input)!! I already ranted about how much I dislike the tokenizer. Tokenizers are ugly, separate, not end-to-end stage. It "imports" all the ugliness of Unicode, byte encodings, it inherits a lot of historical baggage, security/jailbreak risk (e.g. continuation bytes). It makes two characters that look identical to the eye look as two completely different tokens internally in the network. A smiling emoji looks like a weird token, not an... actual smiling face, pixels and all, and all the transfer learning that brings along. The tokenizer must go.

OCR is just one of many useful vision -> text tasks. And text -> text tasks can be made to be vision ->text tasks. Not vice versa.

So many the User message is images, but the decoder (the Assistant response) remains  text. It's a lot less obvious how to output pixels realistically... or if you'd want to.

Now I have to also fight the urge to side quest an image-input-only version of nanochat...


---
Nice, short post illustrating how simple text (discrete) diffusion can be.

Diffusion (i.e. parallel, iterated denoising, top) is the pervasive generative paradigm in image/video, but autoregression (i.e. go left to right bottom) is the dominant paradigm in text. For audio I've seen a bit of both.

A lot of diffusion papers look a bit dense but if you strip the mathematical formalism, you end up with simple baseline algorithms, e.g. something a lot closer to flow matching in continuous, or something like this in discrete. It's your vanilla transformer but with bi-directional attention, where you iteratively re-sample and re-mask all tokens in your "tokens canvas" based on a noise schedule until you get the final sample at the last step. (Bi-directional attention is a lot more powerful, and you get a lot stronger autoregressive language models if you train with it, unfortunately it makes training a lot more expensive because now you can't parallelize across sequence dim).

So autoregression is doing an `.append(token)` to the tokens canvas while only attending backwards, while diffusion is refreshing the entire token canvas with a `.setitem(idx, token)` while attending bidirectionally. Human thought naively feels a bit more like autoregression but it's hard to say that there aren't more diffusion-like components in some latent space of thought. It feels quite possible that you can further interpolate between them, or generalize them further. And it's a component of the LLM stack that still feels a bit fungible.

Now I must resist the urge to side quest into training nanochat with diffusion.