I played with Gemini 3 yesterday via early access. Few thoughts -

First I usually urge caution with public benchmarks because imo they can be quite possible to game. It comes down to discipline and self-restraint of the team (who is meanwhile strongly incentivized otherwise) to not overfit test sets via elaborate gymnastics over test-set adjacent data in the document embedding space. Realistically, because everyone else is doing it, the pressure to do so is high.

Go talk to the model. Talk to the other models (Ride the LLM Cycle - use a different LLM every day). I had a positive early impression yesterday across personality, writing, vibe coding, humor, etc., very solid daily driver potential, clearly a tier 1 LLM, congrats to the team!

Over the next few days/weeks, I am most curious and on a lookout for an ensemble over private evals, which a lot of people/orgs now seem to build for themselves and occasionally report on here.


---
My most amusing interaction was where the model (I think I was given some earlier version with a stale system prompt) refused to believe me that it is 2025 and kept inventing reasons why I must be trying to trick it or playing some elaborate joke on it. I kept giving it images and articles from "the future" and it kept insisting it was all fake. It accused me of using generative AI to defeat its challenges and argued why real wikipedia entries were actually generated and what the "dead giveaways" are. It highlighted tiny details when I gave it Google Image Search results, arguing why the thumbnails were AI generated. I then realized later that I forgot to turn on the "Google Search" tool. Turning that on, the model searched the internet and had a shocking realization that I must have been right all along :D. It's in these unintended moments where you are clearly off the hiking trails and somewhere in the generalization jungle that you can best get a sense of model smell.

