I’m starting to get into a habit of reading everything (blogs, articles, book chapters,…) with LLMs. Usually pass 1 is manual, then pass 2 “explain/summarize”, pass 3 Q&A. I usually end up with a better/deeper understanding than if I moved on. Growing to among top use cases.

On the flip side, if you’re a writer trying to explain/communicate something, we may increasingly see less of a mindset of “I’m writing this for another human” and more “I’m writing this for an LLM”. Because once an LLM “gets it”, it can then target, personalize and serve the idea to its user.

---
I put up a simple repo I call reader3 (it's my 3rd version...) to illustrate how I read EPUBs with LLMs. Basically get some epub (e.g. Project Gutenberg is great), go chapter by chapter, and with this you can easily copy paste text to your favorite LLM.
https://github.com/karpathy/reader3/


---
Finally had time to read & process this great post. I run into the pattern quite often, it goes:

"<something that sounds wrong> is good actually, because <galaxy brain reason>"

Galaxy brain reasoning is the best way to justify anything while looking / feeling good about it.

From this perspective for example, there's deeper wisdom in the Ten Commandments imposing constraints over actions instead of utility over states. It's not Ten Objectives. E.g. they don't attempt to define a utility function for the value of life, they simply say "Thou shalt not kill". This approach curtails the relatively unbounded flexibility of galaxy brain arithmetic over when it may or may not be ok to kill for some ostensibly greater or noble purpose.

Love the strategies that fall out at the end, which are quite actionable. 1) Have principles and 2) Hold the right bags, financially and socially. Great read.