nanoGPT - the first LLM to train and inference in space 🥹. It begins.

---
Quick new post: Auto-grading decade-old Hacker News discussions with hindsight

I took all the 930 frontpage Hacker News article+discussion of December 2015 and asked the GPT 5.1 Thinking API to do an in-hindsight analysis to identify the most/least prescient comments. This took ~3 hours to vibe code and ~1 hour and $60 to run. The idea was sparked by the HN article yesterday where Gemini 3 was asked to hallucinate the HN front page one decade forward.

More generally: 

1. in-hindsight analysis has always fascinated me as a way to train your forward prediction model so reading the results is really interesting and
2. it's worth contemplating what it looks like when LLM megaminds of the future can do this kind of work a lot cheaper, faster and better. Every single bit of information you contribute to the internet can (and probably will be) scrutinized in great detail if it is "free". Hence also my earlier tweet from a while back - "be good, future LLMs are watching".

Congrats to the top 10 accounts pcwalton, tptacek, paulmd, cstross, greglindahl, moxie, hannob, 0xcde4c3db, Manishearth, and johncolanduoni - GPT 5.1 Thinking found your comments to be the most insightful and prescient of all comments of HN in December of 2015.

Links:
- A lot more detail in my blog post https://karpathy.bearblog.dev/auto-grade-hn/
- GitHub repo of the project if you'd like to play https://github.com/karpathy/hn-time-capsule
- The actual results pages for your reading pleasure https://karpathy.ai/hncapsule/