Don't think of LLMs as entities but as simulators. For example, when exploring a topic, don't ask:

"What do you think about xyz"?

There is no "you". Next time try:

"What would be a good group of people to explore xyz? What would they say?"

The LLM can channel/simulate many perspectives but it hasn't "thought about" xyz for a while and over time and formed its own opinions in the way we're used to. If you force it via the use of "you", it will give you something by adopting a personality embedding vector implied by the statistics of its finetuning data and then simulate that. It's fine to do, but there is a lot less mystique to it than I find people naively attribute to "asking an AI".

---
There is definitely work going into engineering the "you" simulation - the personality that gets all the rewards in verifiable problems, or all the upvotes from users/judge LLMs, or mimics the responses of SFT, and there is an emergent composite personality from that. My point is more that the "you" there is deliberately bolted on, engineered and layered on what is fundamentally a token simulation engine, not a mind that is somehow emergent and over time constructed in a relatable way to an average person talking to an AI.

The story is a bit more simple in verifiable domains, but I think more interesting/complicated in the non-verifiable ones, such as for example asking about opinions on topics xyz. It's less clear how to think about the "you" that you're talking to or where it comes from and what credence you should give it.

---
