The post below was trending last few days and reminded me that my earlier digital hygiene post was woefully incomplete without a discussion around smartphone choices.

The post goes into how on Android apps routinely use a loophole (that Android has known about and not fixed for years) to get the list of all other apps on your phone. I disagree with the author that there are legitimate uses for this information. There aren't, or if there are they are super marginal and the privacy tradeoff is not worth it. In practice, the data is clearly being collected at scale for shady user profiling.

The list of apps on your phone is just one example of a data stream; the possibilities are significantly wider. Data of interest may include but is not limited to location data - GPS/WiFi/Bluetooth/cell tower ID data, device information data, sensor data (gyroscope, accelerometer, magnetometer), contacts, call/sms logs, camera/microphone, photo library data (e.g. your photo's EXIF data may include timestamps, GPS, device model), clipboard content, it goes on and on. Knowledge about you is very valuable. Best case, it's used for ads or something. Worst case, it's leaked as part of the next data breach, or sold to the highest bidder for it to be further enriched and weaponized in a wide variety of fraud.

It is the job of the operating system to put the user in charge and protect them from pervasive, predatory tactics that app makers use to gather as much data as possible on your digital (and physical) life.

For an average person who wants a feature-rich, polished experience but doesn't enjoy being actively spied on by the Smart Multicolor Light Bulb app, imo iPhone has taken user defense and privacy a lot more seriously over time than Android (see deep research link below). There are a few more privacy-conscious options possibly available but I haven't tried them (e.g. GrapheneOS & friends, though even GrapheneOS seems to allow apps to list all other apps on the system for reasons I don't understand). Visit Settings > Privacy from time to time to revoke permissions. Delete apps you don't use. And vote with your wallet to communicate your privacy preferences.

iOS vs. Android deep research on privacy/security
https://chatgpt.com/share/67da04d8-558c-8007-bd4f-1ab639d2b5a9

also ref: my earlier post on digital hygiene
https://karpathy.bearblog.dev/digital-hygiene/
