There's a new paper circulating looking in detail at LMArena leaderboard: "The Leaderboard Illusion"
https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.20879

I first became a bit suspicious when at one point a while back, a Gemini model scored #1 way above the second best, but when I tried to switch for a few days it was worse than what I was used to. Conversely as an example, around the same time Claude 3.5 was a top tier model in my personal use but it ranked very low on the arena. I heard similar sentiments both online and in person. And there were a number of other relatively random models, often suspiciously small, with little to no real-world knowledge as far as I know, yet they ranked quite high too.

"When the data and the anecdotes disagree, the anecdotes are usually right." (Jeff Bezos on a recent pod, though I share the same experience personally). I think these teams have placed different amount of internal focus and decision making around LM Arena scores specifically. And unfortunately they are not getting better models overall but better LM Arena models, whatever that is. Possibly something with a lot of nested lists, bullet points and emoji.

It's quite likely that LM Arena (and LLM providers) can continue to iterate and improve within this paradigm, but in addition I also have a new candidate in mind to potentially join the ranks of "top tier eval". It is the 
@openrouter
 LLM rankings:
https://openrouter.ai/rankings
Basically, OpenRouter allows people/companies to quickly switch APIs between LLM providers. All of them have real use cases (not toy problems or puzzles), they have their own private evals, and all of them have an incentive to get their choices right, so by choosing one LLM over another they are directly voting for some combo of capability+cost. I don't think OpenRouter is there just yet in both the quantity and diversity of use, but something of this kind I think has great potential to grow into a very nice, very difficult to game eval.