I attended a vibe coding hackathon recently and used the chance to build a web app (with auth, payments, deploy, etc.). I tinker but I am not a web dev by background, so besides the app, I was very interested in what it's like to vibe code a full web app today. As such, I wrote none of the code directly (Cursor+Claude/o3 did) and I don't really know how the app works, in the conventional sense that I'm used to as an engineer.

The app is called MenuGen, and it is live on http://menugen.app. Basically I'm often confused about what all the things on a restaurant menu are - e.g. Pâté, Tagine, Cavatappi or Sweetbread (hint it's... not sweet). Enter MenuGen: you take a picture of a menu and it generates images for all the menu items and presents them in a nice list. I find it super useful to get a quick visual sense of the menu.

But the more interesting part for me I thought was the exploration of vibe coding around how easy/hard it is to build and deploy a full web app today if you are not a web developer. So I wrote up the full blog post on my experience here, including some takeaways:
https://karpathy.bearblog.dev/vibe-coding-menugen/

Copy pasting just the TLDR:
"Vibe coding menugen was exhilarating and fun escapade as a local demo, but a bit of a painful slog as a deployed, real app. Building a modern app is a bit like assembling IKEA future. There are all these services, docs, API keys, configurations, dev/prod deployments, team and security features, rate limits, pricing tiers... Meanwhile the LLMs have slightly outdated knowledge of everything, they make subtle but critical design mistakes when you watch them closely, and sometimes they hallucinate or gaslight you about solutions. But the most interesting part to me was that I didn't even spend all that much work in the code editor itself. I spent most of it in the browser, moving between tabs and settings and configuring and gluing a monster. All of this work and state is not even accessible or manipulatable by an LLM - how are we supposed to be automating society by 2027 like this?"

See the post for full detail, and maybe give MenuGen a go the next time you're at a restaurant!

---
"Chatting" with LLM feels like using an 80s computer terminal. The GUI hasn't been invented, yet but imo some properties of it can start to be predicted.

1 it will be visual (like GUIs of the past) because vision (pictures, charts, animations, not so much reading) is the 10-lane highway into brain. It's the highest input information bandwidth and ~1/3 of brain compute is dedicated to it.

2 it will be generative an input-conditional, i.e. the GUI is generated on-demand, specifically for your prompt, and everything is present and reconfigured with the immediate purpose in mind.

3 a little bit more of an open question - the degree of procedural. On one end of the axis you can imagine one big diffusion model dreaming up the entire output canvas. On the other, a page filled with (procedural) React components or so (think: images, charts, animations, diagrams, ...). I'd guess a mix, with the latter as the primary skeleton.

But I'm placing my bets now that some fluid, magical, ephemeral, interactive 2D canvas (GUI) written from scratch and just for you is the limit as capability goes to \infty. And I think it has already slowly started (e.g. think: code blocks / highlighting, latex blocks, markdown e.g. bold, italic, lists, tables, even emoji, and maybe more ambitiously the Artifacts tab, with Mermaid charts or fuller apps), though it's all kind of very early and primitive.

Shoutout to Iron Man in particular (and to some extent Start Trek / Minority Report) as popular science AI/UI portrayals barking up this tree.