Diffusion video models but now - **realtime**!

Simple video filters are real-time but can only do basic re-coloring and styles. Video diffusion models (Veo and friends) are magic, but they take many seconds/minutes to generate. MirageLSD is real-time magic. Unlike simple video filters, diffusion models actually *understand* what they are looking at, so they can style all parts of the feed intelligently (e.g. putting hats on heads, or light sabers into hands, etc.). And they are arbitrarily steerable, e.g. by text prompts.

Customizable, intelligent video filters unlock many cool ideas over time:
- transform camera feeds into alternate realities
- direct and shoot your own movies, acting out scenes with props. Realtime => instant feedback/review.
- vibe code games around just simple spheres/blocks, then use a real-time diffusion model to texture your game to make it beautiful.
- style and customize any video feed: games, videos, ... e.g. Skyrim but "MORE EPIC"? DOOM II but modern Unreal Engine quality with just a prompt? Horror movie but "cute, pink and bunnies only"? I don't know!
- zoom call backgrounds+++
- real-time try on clothes virtually
- glasses: e.g. cartoonify your vision in real time?
- we can now build Harry Potter Mirror of Erised, showing the "raw feed" of you in the mirror but augmented with your deepest desires (as inferred by the AI).
- I don't know, I'm probably missing the biggest one, so many things!

(Disclosure I am (very small) angel investor in Decart, I was excited because imo this technology will get very good very fast and it feels general, powerful but it's also technically very difficult. Congrats on the launch to the team!)


---
Pleasure to come by the YC AI Startup School today! I'm told the recordings will be up "in the coming weeks", I'll link to it then and include the slides. Thank you YC for organizing and bringing together an awesome group of builders!
https://events.ycombinator.com/ai-sus

Fun fact is that when I (and all the original founding members) decided to join OpenAI, the name OpenAI didn't exist - we all thought we were joining a new AI non-profit under YC Research. My very first OpenAI swag t-shirt says "YC AI Day 1". Things changed up a bit after that. Cheers to YC! :)